README.md, before:

# Gymbro

Staff-only web application for managing a gym backend system. Clean, minimalist, earth-tone UI. Beginner-friendly codebase with vanilla HTML/CSS/JS on the frontend and Node.js (Express) on the backend, PostgreSQL database, and Sequelize for connection management.

## Tech Stack
- Frontend: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (vanilla)
- Backend: Node.js, Express.js
- Database: PostgreSQL
- ORM: Sequelize (raw SQL queries via `sequelize.query`)

## Project Structure
- `/backend` — API server (default port 3000)
- `/frontend` — static site (default port 5500)

## Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string
  - Example: `postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:PORT/DBNAME`
  - This is used by `/backend/db.js` to create the Sequelize connection.
- `BACKEND_PORT` or `PORT`: Backend HTTP port (default 3000)
- `PORT`: Frontend HTTP port (default 5500) when running `node frontend/index.js`

## Setup
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- PostgreSQL

### Database
1. Create a database (e.g. `gymbro_db`)
2. Apply schema:
   ```bash
   psql -d gymbro_db -f backend/schema.sql
   ```

### Backend (API)
1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   npm install
   ```
2. Set your Postgres URL and start the server:
   ```bash
   # replace USER, PASS, HOST, PORT, DBNAME with your actual values
   DATABASE_URL='postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:PORT/DBNAME' BACKEND_PORT=3000 npm run dev
   ```
3. Health check:
   - Open `http://localhost:3000/api/health` (should return `{"ok":true}`)

### Frontend (Static)
- Option A: Node static server
  ```bash
  cd frontend
  node index.js
  # or
  PORT=5500 npm run start
  ```
  Open `http://localhost:5500/index.html`
- Option B: VS Code Live Server
  - Right-click `frontend/index.html` → “Open with Live Server”

## Pages
- Dashboard (`index.html`)
  - Summary cards: customers, trainers, equipments, sessions today
  - Table of today’s training sessions
- Customers (`customers.html`)
  - List, add, edit, delete customers
- Trainers (`trainers.html`)
  - List, add, edit, delete trainers
- Equipment (`equipments.html`)
  - List, add, delete; update status via dropdown (Available/Maintenance)
- Sessions (`sessions.html`)
  - Book session with selects for customer/trainer/equipment and datetime
  - History table with delete

## API Overview
- Customers
  - `GET /api/customers`
  - `GET /api/customers/:id`
  - `POST /api/customers`
  - `PUT /api/customers/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/customers/:id`
- Trainers
  - `GET /api/trainers`
  - `POST /api/trainers`
  - `PUT /api/trainers/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/trainers/:id`
- Equipments
  - `GET /api/equipments`
  - `POST /api/equipments`
  - `PUT /api/equipments/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/equipments/:id`
- Sessions
  - `GET /api/sessions` (supports `?today=true`)
  - `POST /api/sessions`
  - `DELETE /api/sessions/:id`
- Dashboard summary
  - `GET /api/summary`

## Notes
- CORS is enabled on the backend.
- If port 3000 is busy, set `BACKEND_PORT` to a different value.
- Do not hard-code secrets in source code; use environment variables.

Commit message:

docs: add deployment instructions for Ruk-com Cloud
Add a deployment section to README.md with specific instructions for
running the backend on Ruk-com Cloud, including the important note to
use the internal database port (5432) instead of the external port to
avoid connection errors.

Also load environment variables in db.js to ensure DATABASE_URL is
available for the database connection configuration.

README.md, after:

# Gymbro

Staff-only web application for managing a gym backend system. Clean, minimalist, earth-tone UI. Beginner-friendly codebase with vanilla HTML/CSS/JS on the frontend and Node.js (Express) on the backend, PostgreSQL database, and Sequelize for connection management.

## Tech Stack
- Frontend: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (vanilla)
- Backend: Node.js, Express.js
- Database: PostgreSQL
- ORM: Sequelize (raw SQL queries via `sequelize.query`)

## Project Structure
- `/backend` — API server (default port 3000)
- `/frontend` — static site (default port 5500)

## Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string
  - Example: `postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:PORT/DBNAME`
  - This is used by `/backend/db.js` to create the Sequelize connection.
- `BACKEND_PORT` or `PORT`: Backend HTTP port (default 3000)
- `PORT`: Frontend HTTP port (default 5500) when running `node frontend/index.js`

## Setup
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- PostgreSQL

### Database
1. Create a database (e.g. `gymbro_db`)
2. Apply schema:
   ```bash
   psql -d gymbro_db -f backend/schema.sql
   ```

### Backend (API)
1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   npm install
   ```
2. Set your Postgres URL and start the server:
   ```bash
   # replace USER, PASS, HOST, PORT, DBNAME with your actual values
   DATABASE_URL='postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:PORT/DBNAME' BACKEND_PORT=3000 npm run dev
   ```
3. Health check:
   - Open `http://localhost:3000/api/health` (should return `{"ok":true}`)

### Frontend (Static)
- Option A: Node static server
  ```bash
  cd frontend
  node index.js
  # or
  PORT=5500 npm run start
  ```
  Open `http://localhost:5500/index.html`
- Option B: VS Code Live Server
  - Right-click `frontend/index.html` → “Open with Live Server”

## Pages
- Dashboard (`index.html`)
  - Summary cards: customers, trainers, equipments, sessions today
  - Table of today’s training sessions
- Customers (`customers.html`)
  - List, add, edit, delete customers
- Trainers (`trainers.html`)
  - List, add, edit, delete trainers
- Equipment (`equipments.html`)
  - List, add, delete; update status via dropdown (Available/Maintenance)
- Sessions (`sessions.html`)
  - Book session with selects for customer/trainer/equipment and datetime
  - History table with delete

## API Overview
- Customers
  - `GET /api/customers`
  - `GET /api/customers/:id`
  - `POST /api/customers`
  - `PUT /api/customers/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/customers/:id`
- Trainers
  - `GET /api/trainers`
  - `POST /api/trainers`
  - `PUT /api/trainers/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/trainers/:id`
- Equipments
  - `GET /api/equipments`
  - `POST /api/equipments`
  - `PUT /api/equipments/:id`
  - `DELETE /api/equipments/:id`
- Sessions
  - `GET /api/sessions` (supports `?today=true`)
  - `POST /api/sessions`
  - `DELETE /api/sessions/:id`
- Dashboard summary
  - `GET /api/summary`

## Deployment on Ruk-com Cloud
- **Important**: When running the backend on the same Ruk-com network as the database, use the **internal port (5432)** instead of the external port (11857).
- Set the environment variable `DATABASE_URL` in your Ruk-com dashboard:
  ```
  DATABASE_URL=postgres://webadmin:OFQzlb19621@node86180-env-2210254.proen.app.ruk-com.cloud:5432/gymbro_db
  ```
- This ensures the backend connects via the internal network, avoiding `EHOSTUNREACH` errors.

## Notes
- CORS is enabled on the backend.
- If port 3000 is busy, set `BACKEND_PORT` to a different value.
- Do not hard-code secrets in source code; use environment variables.
